 Good morning or good afternoon everyone and welcome to another paperless lunch and learn webinar. Today's webinar will be discussed in what is the manufacturing execution or otherwise known as MES. We chose this topic today because either the confusion or maybe just understanding but a lot of our interaction with our customers and meet factories in the hospital.  question what is an MES system? Not a lot of people know what an MES system is or can find all the piece of puzzles that go into an MES system. So let's start off with today with a quick definition of what an MES system is. Why is it important to me? How does it play with all the other systems within my business? And what are the advantages and core functions of an MES system? And then people will show you an MES system and how it can actually help.  or accomplish the core functions as well as benefits of NINYES. So getting into it here, we look at a manufacturing execution system. There's really three kind of things it's trying to convey. So it connects with monitors, controls, pretty much anything that goes on in the command spectrum from a data perspective, you know, from users or machines, etc. And then you think about the main goal of a manufacturing execution system to improve your body.  online to improve your production output out there on the shop wall. We'll look at some like industry standards out there. There's a company out there called hide and seek, which is kind of like GART, which it purposes to go and evaluate systems and give an output of, you know, where does that display is, value system, business, etc. Definition from hide and seek for one of the main fetch executions, comes with three components. It's a top down version.  which is really just ERP-centric. It focuses on your ERP data and the needs of ERP that's pretty much one direction. Then the second category that we put in the essence is the bottom-up category, which is machine-centric, which is looking at your speeds and speeds of your machines as far as what's going into it, the temperature, how many pieces are being imported, etc. Then third category that applies to MS. It's just inside of...  which is really based on the worker-centric version of NES, which is going to correct visibility for what easily worked on from an ERP perspective, out there on the shop floor, to communicate down and up from the bottom-up version, which is machines, that's really focused on that user and that two-way communication. Capeless NES, that's where it fits in that inside out version. We're really focused on the workers up in the shop floor, they can see...  simple for them to get information for what they should be doing in the factory today, as well as making it simple for them to report all the activities that they're doing throughout the day that other areas of your business take advantage of. Looking at MES, now where does it fit with other systems? How does it play with MES? Right? We have that machine learning down below, which is your SCADA and stuff where they want to wear it, etc. and actually communicate it in machine learning, MES, then in the middle.  with ERP and your business intelligence on top. You think about that, and the essence critical part of your solution is that it communicates both between your upper level business intelligence and ERP as well as your bottom level of your machines out there in the shop for you. Think about it from a more granular details in this expanded little bit further. You need to look at this chart here, and obviously you've got the nine plants on pretty, so everybody knows that. But it also shows, and the ass out here, you're right.  to show your machine layers, as well as your ear can wear. You can think about the data that's flowing between all these layers and yes, that's where it comes into place. That critical piece in the middle that says, I'm going to communicate down and up the chain, not only to machines, but also to workers out there to shop for all the pertinent information as far as what needs to be packed, but also what has been done so that my other business application could take advantage of that real time information.  make better business decisions. Get it to the core function and features of an MES. So think about obviously who, what, when, where, how, right? Those kind of things are all my core functions. You can be broken down, you know what? When do I need to work on something? What am I supposed to do? How am I supposed to manufacture that? Who is actually responsible for this work area, what tools, what people, etc. And then obviously, you know, how do we actually do  kind of expanding this into favorite all the different features or functions of an advanced system. And we've broken down to these categories. We have data collection and obviously acquisition which is just saying I want to know what's going on over the shop floor. I want to collect information for what's paid process, what's being worked on. Operation schedule. Looking at a schedule for what should be made and a fashion filter on the shop floor.  whether that comes from the AP system or how to make source, everybody has a schedule for what should need to be back around the floor. And it needs to be broken down into more detailed solutions. As far as what work here is, are presented with the schedule that that individual is stationed. And that's an important piece because you have to obviously work on the right things at the right time in order to actually increase part on time. This vaccine production needs. And so I, you know, will production need to be back around the floor.  the form of a finished good, because in the form of a sub-sub-sub-example, you form a raw material. But you're dispatching this production unit out to the shop where, again, in sequence, as well as reporting what was done against each one of those production units. Production tracking in genealogy is just point, an indicator of a track that can be expanded into many different kinds of track movements, as far as where it is in process, if it's a track status, if it's a track, if it's a track status, if it's a track status, if it's a track status, if it's a track status, if it's a track status, if it's a track status, if it's a track status, if it's a track status, if it's a track status, if it's a track status, if it's a track status, if it's a track status, if it's a track status, if it's a track status, if it's a track status, if it's a track status, if it's a track status, if it's a track status, if it's a track status, if it's a track status, if it's a track status, if it's a track status, if it's a track status, if it's a track status, if it's a track status, if it's a track status, if it's a track status, if it's a track status, if it's a track status, if it's a track status, if it's a track status, if it's a track status  working on it, track what inventory went into it, what inventory came out of it. You can get down to a very granular level where you're looking at gene-on-genology, which is looking at maybe the backslide information for components that went into an environment that's fashionized and shows up. Or you can even go one left when you're lower, go to the serial number, which is unique identity against the parts that you're paying for action, as well as the parts that you're putting into that serialized end-type. So those things are very, very...  staff and resource management. Obviously you want to know who's in the building, who's scheduled to work at North Fort Center, you know, that are those skills for those workers for change and job, instead of be wanting to understand not only who's here and what's working on, but also how well they're doing. You know, I actually, going ahead or behind schedule on the job that is currently at my work space process management, you do it.  expand process management with management in the business. You can get about how it should talk to you in fact. You want to communicate that obviously with engineers and put together a design of a product in fact, and steps that have to be in fact. That's the process you want to control the management of that process. You'll get a performance analysis. Performance analysis can broken down into, you know, how well is this job performance? Performance analysis can broken down into, you know,  that we actually change whether that's the joy, whether that's the job itself, there's a lot of factors that go into performance analysis. And being able to actually look at the identity details for each one of those areas, how well it's doing, can lead to some huge benefits with an any inspection. Performance analysis. I actually, I talked about that one at the end of the day.  Just the management of maintenance for machines, quality, against a job, against machines, the agency component of a sub-assembly of finished item, and then document using all the supporting information that needs to be communicated to and from the shop floor. Again, think about it as a MES solution. Think about these core culture features. You know, it's not just tracking information what happened out there on the shop floor.  also retrieving information and also communicating information out there to shop for and all the other business applications. Take a look quickly at a brief workbook. How does you think about planners and engineers on the side there? An engineer with aggers can actually tell you what roadie steps, how does this item get assembled, just to whatever details you want to go down. Planners are seen in places they know what I hear is what I have.  on the schedule. Here's my current portfolio and this could be very automated for format, meaning the software application, because it's the bulk of your planning and maybe you have a planner above that, just to review and tweak that plan that was created by your software application. But all that information then goes into your MES application, right? And then back in turn, there's obviously data and data that's communicated out to the production of your software. And you go out to the...  a shift supervisor, which can further tweak that mind if you give it the Indian responsibility to say, you know what? I know based on my information out in the forward this job, you know, run knob because I don't have people, I don't have resources for material for an machine, it was actually running slower, so I hope that I can change things up. Or maybe they're even going more granular level saying that it makes more sense to run and use to job back back if things were as slow as...  are set up setups and we reduce overall setup time if I actually run these two jobs back back. So that's the production information that can be communicated up to shop floor to supervisors. And then the operators on the floor are obviously going to many factions. So we're going to act to look at the individual tasks that need to be done at the individual work centers. We're going to look at the parts that immediately process as far as how do I assemble something, like back to something. So they're ultimately.  they're going to produce a product. And that product could be a, again, self-assembled item, or it could be finished, I don't know, or it could just be a working process step. And then we get it all on the last little thing here, which is looking at inspection volume. And that's why I look at that working process as a component, if you, or a step-of-the-manufactured process. That means we test it, because you may want to test in process, things rather than just testing the end item  So all this information is from operators and quality inspectors and machines as well. And obviously go back into the NES system as updating what is currently going on on out in shop floor and then to communicate that, not only to communicate that to a NES application, but also to communicate that to all your other business applications. So you're planning engine, you're purchasing engines, what's the pilot's needs  and business are updated based on that information and something you shop for with that information that you have better tool in order to make better business decisions. You didn't even know why is it MES important. You know, in two key factors really are making sure you have accurate and visit real-time information that this holds to everybody. So really giving many factors at real-time, accurate and visual information to everybody and have a scope of what's moving away.  but I want to make sure that that hits home. And that's the important. I mean, if you look at that software systems up there, you'll go and wide-light it, and that's the right. And I just want that just to capture the collect data that is maybe used or not used. If I've not used, then why collect it? But you really want to use this MES information to further improve your business. And once the machine down, how much scrap have I had, what quality is just that? And running for schedule, set up.  Died in a little deeper here. And I'll think about MES and how it happenizes the production of them for. It's really helping production before by having everybody up to date with that real-time information. It's current conditions. Obviously, you know, key indicators, you know, stack like red, green, and yellow, right? Obviously red means it's a strong green, something's good, yellow means them in the mornings. Those are the correct conditions.  of the shop floor and that's back like can be across many different areas. It's not just for that machine that runs but maybe it's actually an operator or maybe it's actually material. Maybe it's the overall order for the overall end-line. MES can also be used to help reduce set-up times. You think about capturing information of them in shop roads. Without an NES system, you have no idea how much set-up time is actually being accumulated for given items. Here's where you can...  capture them, and then once it's captured, you can monitor or do some analysis over that information to figure how much set of time is being reported or individual jobs, individual work sections or individual employees as well. So you can then look at how much time it's being set up to say, you know, this seems to be a little bit out of whack, I actually puts processes in place in order for me to try to reduce it. Maybe I'm always going, you know, to one item to another item.  and that transition between those two items is quite large, I think, that he did change my planning to it. That's your cost. I'm thinking about labor costs, publishing machine costs, scrap costs, etc. Having that accurate cost information can help the business obviously about the value of having an accurate cost information.  So you know that you're making margin that you expect to make for the profit that you're wanting to make. Increasing machine cup pack. When you're about machine up, then, you know, one of the most key elements of most famous actions are the machines and how they be utilized. I'd say, you know, give examples of fine examples of different companies that you go out to where they think, yeah, I need a new machine and then realize that the new's announces about the machine you want.  They're not utilizing machines for the post-concoming. So they don't really need a new machine. They just make sure that that machine is public running as much as time as possible throughout the day. Think about reducing waste. There's a lot of waste with these batches. And I'm saying pretty, there's probably gone on a lean journey at 140 for another or still going on a lean journey. Today, we're just saying I want to reduce waste, which is one of the things.  different types of waste and get eliminated or reduced by the my business. We think about it, you know, qualities of the time of waste. We just talked about that on a machine uptime or down thing. That's a way. That's a way to talk about operator utilization. Talk about productivity as far as how might be, sorry, producing items to a new fashioner. Talk about efficiency. Efficiency is looking at the amount of pieces completed good compared to the amount of pieces that work.  completed poorly or scrap pieces. Those are all forms of information that can be collected through an MES system, as well as communicated through that MES to other areas, which allows it to then further dive into what I have, but it can be so many of the quality issues on of my shop floor, and how do I need to actually reduce those? Better managing inventory.  tools in any MES system. In fact, part of one of those core functions that we added out there, as far as inventory. You know, inventory is a big dollar value in fashion companies, and being able to manage that correctly not only gives you the ability to reduce overall cost to visit, but also planning to think about today's world and the supply chain that we're living in, where the order something on Amazon today is not new.  that's the expectation that's going to be in driven throughout the world today, that's being able to manage those individuals so we have the right material on hand today to manufacture the goods that you need to make that should be so that you can meet your own type of deliverments. Those are all playing a part, but also you don't want to just increase your inventory on hand-quining so much that there are always there meaning that the inventory is more cost within enjoys. And you obviously want to try to improve that supply chain.  Some additional benefits of MES, reducing psychotimes is obviously eliminating the data entry which would process. Let's just go through each one of these one more detail. Now you think about manufacturing psychotimes, that was in the front of time it takes to manufacture something. If you have real-time information for how long it took to manufacture something, how much downtime that within process I have lent you that has heated up one operation around the set and then you can start working.  Next operation, we're out of set, zone two hours and two days later, back in altitude, it's really good insight as far as how to reduce your overall psychotherapy. Eliminate data entry and reduce data entry. Data entry is a necessary evil, right? We wanna give that information in, but data entry can come in multiple facets. You can be as simple as scanning a barcode, an item that could be your data entry versus actually trying to type in the item number, then you cash your order to operation.  in my whole idea and everything else. So you have to enter information, and you have to capture some how. So the data entry is a necessary e-board, yes, you will. For information to populate in MDS as well as you can hold on to all business. But let's reduce and eliminate and make it simple. You think about data entry, it's not only from human perspective, but actually scanning something, or entering something, or keyboard. It also can be something coming from a machine. So I can have it TLC.  sensor on the machine that is actually due to data entry form. Think about reducing overall work and process, right? We can recover this space a little bit already. But work and process is the amount of items you have out there. Again, how much weight time do I have between operation? What's my productivity efficiency on each one of those? Reducing paperwork. Today's world, right? We've been through electronics for getting ours.  statements, other statements, bills, and everything else electronically. Let's reduce paper on the shop floor. No, I just reduce it in the cost perspective. So it does have cost perspective to print out that paper, advantage that paper, and just if you should distribute that paper in the house. But now you think about the other cost of that line. You know, if I have paper work out there in the shop floor, that is locating that working on the wrong job.  that it's supposed to be usable, not there. So that paperwork, you reduce it now, you put it into an online form. Everything is real-time. The engineer changes that, revision of that, everybody knows about it. I have additional instructions, I have to test instructions, or set up instructions or things like that. Everybody knows about it today. So it's value and the process of reducing paper just besides the cost of printing. Reducing lead text.  Again, back to the cycle times and we tend to go together, right? How much time do I need head up to make back to something or purchase something from my vendors? It includes product quality, the thing about MES and product quality. If you're testing things to help the manufacturing process at the point where it actually needs to be tested, your quality immediately will increase rather than just testing it at the time. We can height up or run these three stages.  And this cannot only just be for the manufacturer and property cost, we for your purchase site. And then taking that information and having metrics across to say, this is the number one deep back that I've received or this is the number one work center that is producing the errors which were non conformances out there on my shop floor. That goes a long way to improving quality but also reducing your...  and you're on time delivering. It remains lost paperwork. It kind of goes in the hand with the user paper, but I think if I use paperwork, what do I do? Right, that's what we print in. We just distributed it out to the shop, or nobody knows what's in the work earn. And a lot of waste and stuff. In powerings, the people out in the floor to do the things that they know what they need to do. This is a real critical. It's kind of that the point of entering, right? I want to empower those people to...  tell me what their actually currently working on, tell me what they've done. Communicate them to actually look at information regarding what is in front of them to make a fraction. That really empowers them to actually take ownership of tasks in front of them, which is obviously to improve your entire company. I've produced a planning process, and they're obviously increasing your entire company. You think about a planning process, right? Your planning based on what do you know today? So the sooner you know it as well as...  more accurate information that you have, the better your plan will become. It's about when I'm actually wanting to purchase items by the main faction process out there and I'm assuming items at the time we finished items reported completely, I do not know my true on-hand inventory until that item is reported completely. So now if you run into finding engine, it's going to think you have more material on hand than what you really do have on it. And likewise if you do the other spectrum, I actually see...  or relieve all indian dirt when the order is released up front, it's going to look like you don't have to trace your money engines out of your spare time to get behind. So the accurate information and real time information for not only what is available for raw material and stuff of assemble items as well as finished goods, but also the steps and manufacturing process basically greatly improved the whole money back. And then just as a summary of the company.  a hole is approved by knowing this information real time, more importantly having the accurate. Let's take a look now at Paglus here. How does Paglus accomplish a lot of the benefits and functions that we just talked about, right? In the Paglus world, let's take a look back, maybe just communicating information out to the shop floor. Where I've got, you know, my orders out there, where I've got my entire bottle of tea, all my routies, all my attachments.  for a work area or for a job. I can use a further dive in, look at drawings or look at pictures of what you need. Or you can even insert a video for what is manufacturing or how to assemble something, what materials to use, how to set up a machine. It's pretty much endless as far as the information that you can communicate out to the shop so that when they're recording, they're actually recording again.  what these expect is that whole process improvement out there in the shop floor is pretty, pretty improved. Next thing, let's look at, I mean, just a working process and stuff out there in the shop floor. And you have a lot of different activities and events that can happen. You know, and again, make it simple to talk about the eliminated paper. We also talking about using keystrokes for data entry, right, the use of that data entry footprint. And here's where you can actually look at  the job that are scheduled with my work center action, and a lot of different actions against any one of those jobs. In actions can be anywhere from consuming the raw material that goes into that order, because we actually consume the raw material that is consumed at that step in the main fashion concept. It also produces a dispatch list to say what should be work done and in what order it should be work done, giving you indicators of what events are going well and to go on poorly.  red and green indicators are throughout the application. Again, giving that real-time visibility into accurate information out there on the shop floor. There's a ton of different action buttons that can be taken from a labor perspective of material perspective, a quality perspective, conbound inventory management, transferring material from vocation to location, lots of alerts and notifications can be sent in.  all this says that I'm actually had a schedule on behind schedule, looking at parts that don't have the parts available. Things I covered before, but just to accentuate them here a little bit, you think about all the recording, you know, the quantity, the labor, the people who worked on it, the quality tests that were recording, all of those pieces are things that you would enter in through, you know, this is just one version of the paperless space.  used to share the information from what we worked on, but also input the information for what was actually accomplished out there on the shop floor. Tons of different benefits here from the supervisor, the shared plant manager, customer service, fails, whoever you want to give access to 32, to go and look at activity out there and shop work. We have the touchscreen kind of UI for the operators.  use it that way with the scanner. You also have a browser navigation from a supervisor, the manager's level where they can actually go in and look at manufacturing for information and look at a few of times statuses for how long, how far along in the process I am against any given manufacturing order. Drill into the details and look at all the operations and see the statuses and progress within each operation. Drill into the details and see the statuses and progress within each operation.  different philomotirals, and say what is available, what is being seen, what's required for this order as well as this operation stuff. Many different inquiries into information within papers can give you insight into how your main fashion process is going on there in the shop. Looking at different types of conva. Obviously red green and yellow would be fine for anybody in the floor, right up to you. Critical world.  that state degree is a good thing. You'd love it for everything to be green, but we all know that in a way in fashion the system can have the red topic. And that's fine. It's just how fast can you react to that red situation? In this example on screen here, I'm looking at a inventory situation where item number 1,000 is actually in jeopardy of starving in work area of material. So that's what we want.  to react to those things quickly. You know, anything that is red or yellow, you'd like to be able to react to it right now so that you can keep your machines, your people working on the job that they keep working on, as well as ultimately completing that item, the effective duty, so that you shift the validity of customer on time. So all these things that we're talking about, play up into that overall, the quick effectiveness, your on time delivery, your overall cost of your item.  that manufacturing is key to this, gives you insight into the college real time right now so you can correct them and improve your time of delivery, etc. Another example is just like looking at maybe things that may pop up there's a lot of different analyzers and charts out there from material. I can build into one of the items that was controlled through a conbond technology and realizing that I have evolved through my first two.  containers, quite pretty good, but they never resolved through my second two containers. Just indicator to maybe the material manager saying that, you know what, we've improved our supply chain or maybe our demand has gone down, that we've never get to those last two containers. So that may be okay because if the place is back I want to keep on hand, or maybe that's the sign that I'm carrying more intermediaries or whatever needs to carry, and I can start to reduce the inventory arginal right now to obviously keep my bottom right.  recently held in Illinois for a visiting at Cusmer and one of their drivers for 2020 was to reduce inventory by two million dollars. You think about that right? Obviously two million dollars. That means they have you know done some analysis internally that says we have more than two million dollars of extra inventory on how can we complete this? You think about what that does for your bottom line. It's just incredible right? So we're using two of  like an MESA to help them identify that they have access to knowledge of inventory, but then further drilling and interesting of what items are specifically targeted to say, let's reduce the, again, those could be any type of items. They could be purchased items, they could be your components, they could be your sub-subbell items, things you make to stack and you want to keep on the shelf for further items down the line, it could be your  combination that helps you drill into the figure out which items you're actually carrying more of and you can drive that cost down. There's a lot of difference alerts and revocations in thinking about how to do these things, right? How do I communicate? We have shown you the red and green and yellow. That's great if somebody's looking on the screen. If somebody's not looking on the screen, I'd like to be able to send a message for that fashion that says, hey, we have a critical situation. There's an notification on work there, 123, but this job is...  running behind schedule lower than expected run rate, it's not going to be completed based on expected duty. That's just one type of alert notification. I could have another one for material that I do not have material in stock or in the location and I'm expecting it by the time I need it so I need to notify somebody that material is not here in this different location. So I have to get there before we start job with the work done. And helping you reduce  a lot of those waste that are in any new vacuum vacuum process. There's wait times, set up time, you know, material, machines, employees, etc. There's different types of dashboards and things of that that can be presented inside of papers as well. And it's about a big monitor above a worker that says, you know what, this is the job you're working on, this work's there. You've been running it for an hour and nine minutes, I've expected three pieces, but no pieces have actually been written.  the court is that. The obviously shows crack there's love it just come I mean what that comes to the supervisor or as well To the operator as they're looking at that monitor above their workers saying you know what I should have to do the pieces by now I haven't really seen it any so it's a self-managing type of tool Now they're gonna obviously go get the help that they need in order to you know machine back up and running with the cheerleading etc but it also can be communicated to the  You can have other different types of dashboards out there as well. That will kind of show you multiple pieces of information. Obviously, the expected versus actual downtime with the zoning machines that are currently down and how long they've been down. You can throw up a historical chart of the downtime across the number of the core centers, just to give you that visibility into what is happening out there on the shop floor. And these dashboards can be big monitors out there.  shop floor above work areas, they could be on a supervisor's desk, they could be on energy's desk. You know, it doesn't matter where they are, they are used to communicate real time events out there for shop floor and also give you some little peek to where your problems are as well as historically how well you've been doing. Another example of dashboard is just, there are many different types of charts, you know, you could have a job in the fisheries, downtown and sometimes completion, ODE, or just a rocket.  that's the best thing. You have the different values within OE like availability or productivity or quality because those individual values that really make up those values. So you know your quality is really taken as they get. That's something you need to address today. That's not a lot of cost. It's currently have quality issues. If you're availability is one of that, maybe a bad number. That's not a big support. Because you don't have the demand.  know that machine was down for stuff of maintenance, et cetera. So there's a lot of different reasons to guide into the details of the fleet. But again, you can have these different dashboards. So a lot of different information out there to help you manage your shop floor better. Think about why we started this webinar and lunch here. So I understand what an NES solution is, right? How does it play within my listening other systems? And what benefits do you have?  get out of it. There has to be a benefit otherwise you wish. You see here the benefits are very large. You expect so many benefits that come from every aspect of the main fashion whether it's scheduling jobs, whether it's communicating what to work on a job, whether it's reporting the information in a very simple fashion, whether it is actually getting alerts notifications or indicators that I have problems over at the shop floor. That's what I'm  benefit because you can react to them today rather than really talk to models, production, data, meaning, or waiting for a week or waiting to customer get your product and find out there's quality. So there's a lot of benefits that could go into an MES solution. There's a lot of reasons that every manufacturing company should invoke and turn on parts of an aim. You don't have to turn on everything. You can turn on just different parts. You want to be focused on quality, secure and quality, secure and focus.  I may be getting more accurate rates and cost-earnings and you should turn on pieces of the application to give you better values for how much it costs and how long it takes to manufacture. So think about an MES system as a bunch of different tools, functions that you can turn on to improve your overall business. That's it for this presentation. I'll open it up for any questions. I'll read my chat box here.  See if there's any questions. If you want, you can just put those in the questions area. I'll give it a minute or two. As always, you can submit your questions to the paper list. As well, you can go to our website at www.pickleteloc.com or in the description.  information systems engineering, which is iac-e-rp.com. All right, thank you very much everyone for attending. We will put this broadcast out on our website so if you want to download it and view it at a later time or send it off to maybe some of your coworkers, that's fine as well. Have a great day. 